The Joe Rogan experience. You know,
I try to do a good job of bobbing and weaving and moving my head and slipping
off the center line.
Kicks to you. Keep guys on the outside. You have a weird style, man.
It's too close, man.
Yeah, That's what it is
to close back though. up.
Did you start out from a, I mean, I know you have a wrestling base too.
What did you, what did you start out with? What was your first martial art?
I didn't have any, we, we, you know, the karate confirm like VHS tapes. I.
You not, I have a family of this. I think there's 20 of us now. My dad,
my dad just had a newborn son. I. You not. He's 57.
The guy's out of his bird. Wow. But, uh, it just had any boy,
I haven't even met him yet. That's one. And uh, all the boys grew up.
We had these karate tapes, VHS tapes,
and we would imitate the characters and we'll be like, we're the drunken master?
Or we're the white tiger, white lion.
And we have to do their fight styles and what I lo kissed.
So we're still flexible and malleable, we don't break as easily.
So we just start beating the out of each other,
but we'd do like spinning backaches, jumping off the couches and like that.
And I think that might've trays, like, cause that was like,
we did that for years, but that was the most combat we did.
We didn't do any like wrestling, no, nothing traditional at all. Before.
I ever got into martial arts, I used to do that. Same thing.
I used to throw kicks with my friends. I didn't know what I was doing,
but it was fun. But yeah,
you like watch a Bruce Lee movie and start throwing kicks or some Chuck Norris
film or something like that. You learn how to do stuff by watching,
but you could also develop some terrible habits. Yeah.
But you don't look like you developed any bad habits. Like if I had to guess,
I would say you have a traditional martial arts background in what?
The way you throw kicks.
Like you throw kicks like a guy who started throwing kicks when you were really
young. Yeah. But they're right. You throw them.
Right. Which ones would you say? Like all.
Your, your roundhouse kicks your front kicks. You have great front kicks, man.
You're really good at keeping guys off of you. You have good movement, you know,
like you got a style, that's a unique style. Like so when,
when guys have to fight you, they go, oh,
this guy is going to be kicking at me from the outside. He moves a lot.
He bobs and weaves. It's hard to hit. You got a lot going on with your style.
It's very tiring.
I was going to ask.
I was going to ask you that too.
Cause we.
Called that in your last fight.
Like the third round you were kind of slowing down a little bit. I'm like,
imagine all the energy this guy's using because you're always bobbing and
weaving and moving and kick in and moving and kicking and moving and moon.
Joseph's just, you know, Bob and towards you and,
and just throwing traditional type, Bob.
In his head too, you.
Looked at like energy output.
Like how much more energy you must have put out in that fight than he did.
Just in terms of the amount of kicks you throw and the amount of jumping back
and forth and leaping in leaping out like this. That's all like.
Well, Matrixx, it's a ton.
And the good thing is credit to like the training that we do. You know,
we get the, I get the, the right work. I got that guy. I'm a Rob Davis, Chile.
Who's a freaking psycho. That guy does not get tired.
We call him the machine for a reason, the guy, he would finish sparring with me.
And I'm like, I did my rounds championship work. I'm done.
I'm just gonna get on bike or hit the pads, whatever it is or band work,
just to get a little extra cardio push and he'll be in there and grab two,
three, sometimes four more bodies to spar with. And I'm like,
this guy just doesn't stop. He's out of his bird. This is no exaggeration.
This guy is out of his bird. But it's the reason why my cardio I'm like,
you want to get your cardio top notch, get yourself a Mirage.
Get yourself one of those two. He's a man. He's a good dude. He's a good dude.
Sometimes too much of a good deal. I'm like, Marav I can carry,
I could carry my own wallet. You know, it was like,
he gets to the point like that. Like, dude, thank you. I appreciate it.
But you know, but um, yeah, it's, it's a very tiring style. Um,
but we do a lot of work and I do my own strength and conditioning just from
having a background in physical education and SUNY Cortland. So do your own.
Yeah. So I've been doing this since I was amateur like writing my own thing,
my own program.
Cause they told us how to like work on like isometric squeezes and different
type of like explosive muscle endurance workouts and stuff like static holes,
like holding all the on a polar Bard and going out to punches.
So I put together a pretty decent program it's been working. I can't complain.
So.
And when you do it, how do you design? It uses a designer for the entire camp.
Like do you set it out every day?
Like where you want to be and do you adjust it depending on how you feel and
injuries? Like how do you.
Exactly like that? So when I'm further out from the camp or not in camp at all,
I'll do more lifting and I'll lift heavy and I don't really do like benching no
more. I think that like stupid for four fighters.
It doesn't make a whole lot of sense. I'm not going to bench,
press somebody off my back, you know? Um, I, I don't know whatever,
but I'll do that. And I'll just a training camp and just the, the, uh,
the programs when I get close to the fight and I don't mind to like sharing this
because I think guys,
they make it more complicated than what it should be. Like.
I sometimes I see all this crazy. I'm like,
I just don't understand the whole necessity behind any of that, but I'm no,
I'm no physical strength, conditioning, doctorate, or anything like that.
But from what I've seen, that works for me,
I just try to mimic everything that I feel in a fight and implement it into a
workout. And I figure out which ways I can do that. Whether it's bands, pushups,
box jobs, wall sits, I do wall sits get ups with two plates.
So I'm sitting down on my butt and I'll do like a technical standup.
And I use the wall and I push up. So it's a lot of leg work, a lot of core work.
And two plates with two plates is up it's sometimes I come there and I do it by
myself in the morning, I go to Loma Mae by myself, 9:00 AM. And I'm like,
why am I putting myself through this? Like I can,
it could be so much easier and more simple, like just to do the other stuff,
like the plyometric stuff. And which is a little,
not as much impact on the body, but this is what I enjoy.
I think this was what translates to the fight because this is what I feel.
And I feel when I do this,
I notice a drastic difference from one sparring session to the next.
But to answer your question, like I adjust it, I'll do it.
If my legs are on fire and I feel like they're really beat up from sparring,
I'll do more upper body. And then if my feeling, my upper body is more beat up,
I'll switch it off to the lower body. And if I feel like I'm fresh,
like I had a good week, I'd maybe I did a spa, um,
on a Saturday and I'd come in and fresh on a Monday,
I'll hit it hard and do full body everything.
And I'll give myself five rounds of pushing it, but I separate it into rounds,
simulate the fiber round. So I do every single minute,
but I'll do about 40 40, depending on how far I am from, from the fight.
If I'm like just on a training camp, I don't want to kill myself.
I want to ease my way into it.
So I'll start like anywhere from like 30,
35 seconds to like 50 seconds and that ten second window or that other 32nd
window is my time to recover and get to the next station.
And I'll just wrap whatever I'm doing, burning out, burning out. I'll do, um,
the med ball between my legs.
I'll do the foam roll in my arms and I'll squeeze it.
And I'll assimilate the rear naked choke.
And I do it for two minute intervals and I'm just squeezing the out of it.
And obviously you can't do it, but you do it to failure and your arms get Ty,
you switch and go to the other side and you switch your legs. You figure four,
it, you scissor the legs.
So you give yourself a different type of stimulation to your body to kind of
account for everything that you may possibly be in for the fight.
And you never know it was this fight. I did a lot of grappling,
but I also did a lot of punching because I thought to myself,
they might be a chance.
I might be a possibility that I do not get paged to the ground. And I was happy.
I didn't force to take downs. Cause that would have fatigued me even more.
I was like, if it comes, it comes. But we did it. I did a lot of output,
just burning out the arms, getting that muscle endorse, kind of using the app,
Floyd Mayweather structure of a workout. Just get into the heavy back count,
like high punch count in, in a five minute round.
And I'll do that for a couple of rounds.
And we do that a couple of times a week.
And I think you implement that with the lateral foot work that we do in a cage
and just staying on your bike and having people like, like stalk you and like,
sh just not going crazy, but as a control,
like they don't punches like hooks or they throw in, um, a one, two,
and you got to like bounce side to side and get out the way.
So it was a lot of like,
I at least I think is practical for what you're going to actually see when you
get in a fight. And I think, sure enough,
a lot of the things we did pretty much happened in a fight. Just.
Your toes, long squeezes. It is a great idea.
I wasn't seeing is that something that comes up often in a fight where you maybe
got a gun, an arm triangle or something like that.
And it's that close to whether you get it or he escapes.
It's like how much squeeze, how long can you keep it down? You know,
when you're caught in something and it's like,
you're almost tapping the guy let's go. You're like,
[inaudible] Long squeezes. Uh, like my friend Scott Epstein, Einstein,
he teaches at a 10th planet west LA.
He's always been a big fan of slow, slow workouts. Like he'll do,
chin-ups like this like super slow. I think that's what they call it super slow.
And he'll do, chin-ups like, he's doing a chin-up.
It might take him two minutes to do a chin up. Yeah. Where the entire time.
So like when you're grappling with someone's like you're trying to squeeze it
upon them in that long-term squeeze endurance like quicksand. Yeah.
It makes sense because if everything is fast and exploding,
but then you get a rear naked and you have to like continue to compress or a
good team where you can squeeze.
It's different. It's such a different, such a different field is kind of,
it kind of reminds me. It is exactly like my Brian caraway fight.
Although I did do three workouts on the day of that before the fight,
even Matt told me in the backroom, he was like, algebra,
save some for the fight. I was like, no, man, I'm good.
And I was just going crazy. I was like, in my head, I'm like I did all the work,
but I, I just wanted to be so prepared.
Cause I knew it was the biggest fight of my life.
I knew if I beat him and finished him, I was probably going to get a title shot,
his Forno undefeated coming off three finishes. And I knew if I finished him,
I'm more likely going to get. And they lined me up too, because the next week I,
I went to Fox and I was supposed to talk about the Dominick Cruz fight versus
your I favorite fight, which I went, but the fight didn't go my way.
So it kind of had like a bittersweet taste to it. So do you.
Think that had anything to do with the extra rounds you put in or the extra
work?
Talk to a hundred? A hundred percent.
I think if I had just done my one morning shakeout, 15, 20 minutes,
it was what I do now. Just get the food,
move it through my system so that my body can get like,
just feel like it's more alive again. Like it does during training camp.
I think, uh, I think that fight easily done first round or even a second.
Cause he survived the first. But I think the second round,
I think I'd get him out of there, but it's just experience, you know,
learning and becoming more mature about the game and trusting your training.
Do you think that has anything to do with you training yourself?
Do you think that you, if you had a legit strength and conditioning coach,
who's monitoring your heart rate,
like are you monitoring your heart rate and all that stuff?
No. I just started doing stuff with the pie center and I try to,
because I saw that guy, Brendan Davis, he's he's for 45, a foot to beat.
And he's uh, he's up.
East 1 35 now.
Which is insane to me. So I don't know how he makes it. That's what I said.
So I'm like, dude, if I'm going to have to be fighting these giant guys,
I need to figure something out. I'm like they,
they explain how he was able to cut the weight.
Like he was running like 10 miles or something day a date,
which was insane to me. I know he was saying like, some of it was like walking,
but it's all about your heart rate, your resting heart rate,
where you burn the most fat and calories or whatever you want to call it.
He's so big.
When I was standing next to him, I couldn't believe he makes 1 35.
It's insane. I, I was actually pretty upset. I was like, this guy,
go back out to your way class.
And didn't he say to me? Wait, I think I asked him what he weighed in the cage.
I think he said somewhere around one 60. Yeah.
I don't get that big.
What does he say? I'll look up. I'll check his bananas man.
He's he's so gigantic. And he's one of the like six one or something like that.
That's easy for them.
Yeah. I don't want to find a guy. That's six one. You gotta, I gotta,
I got the unfair advantage right now. You take your back out to 45.